# Critical Questions for Big Data
**Here is my response**:

*1*. From my perspective, Bowker said "Raw data is both an oxymoron and a bad idea" for two reasons. Firstly, by referring raw data as an "oxymoron", he is expressing the idea that the data is never raw, with oxymoron meaning things contradicted to each other are put together in the same phrase. The word "raw" means something that are pristine and objective from the very beginning, however, data can be very subjective from either the selection made by the data collector or the information shown online which can be incomplete and inaccurate. But if the data is completely raw, then what can we discover from the data? The only way to know something from a pure raw data might be to add personal views on the data to make the data indicate something that the data collector think about or agree with, and that's why he said raw data was a bad idea.

*2*. This sentence means that the invention of a tool could not only serve its original specific purpose, for instance, collecting data, but also change the way people think about the issue in reality, which could lead to unexpected consequences. In the Podcast, the CompStat system was invented to make the police attach importance to every crime they met, to prevent more crimes happening in the city so that the crime rate could drop. However, later on, letting the crime rate down seems to be the primary goal for police officers regardless of the types of crimes. At last, showing their activity become the major way for the police to show that since the arrests were rising, the crime rate went down. In this case, the CompStat, this big database, became the head of the police which distribute daily KPIs. The CompStat system made the police lie to themselves and force themselves to believe that downgrading the crimes and increasing police activities on small "crimes"could really lead to a decrease in crime rate. As this phenomenon went on for a long time, it gradually shifted people's thought step by step, which is similar to a chronic brainwash, and it worked for most people.

*3*. Limitations of Twitter are quiet obvious. Firstly, the users registered in Twitter does not represent all people, since there are still many people who don't use twitter at all, or just look at twitter on their browser without registering for an account. The accounts on Twitter are also not a good source for data collection, because a person can own several different accounts at the same time, and there are many robots on twitter that don't reflect anything of the user. Also, it's hard to exclude human factors when collecting the data, such as internet police who remove many posts/pictures that have negative impact on the society, so the data collected cannot fully represent users' preferences and reactions. Furthermore, the data are not objective at all, since the browsing habit of each user is very different too. For instance, Some user like to retweet, while others tend to click likes. Some users click likes because they like the content, while others just want to keep an record of the content, or they don't like the content but want the content to be notorious. It is hard to know what the user is thinking about from data collection when they are interacting with something published on line. Personal relationships between one and another also cannot be determined simply from their interactions online. The data of one person can be inaccurate, and if we put the data of many people together, there can be a huge bias. What we get from data can only represent a small part of what we are trying to study from the data.

*4*. If you don't need to login to obtain certain data, it doesn't mean that the data is public and free to use, because you can't control how you will be using the data. When you see something online without logging in, it simply means that you are able to see it, however, without the author's permission on how to use the data, it is very rude to use it for other purposes. What we see on the internet might not be what we see. If any misinterpretation happens during the process, and if the misinterpretation is not limited to a small range but could be spread out to any other places, not only the result of the usage will be more and more inaccurate, but also the privacy and reputation of the author will be seriously harmed.
