# Three Quotes from New Dark Age : Cloud

> "...smartphones and internet have made data abundant, ubiquitous and far more valuable...By Collecting more data, a firm has more scope to improve its products, which attracts more users, generating more data, and so on."

Yes, started from the time when people begin to share their information online, the companies were able to get more data from their users, including the users' name, age, hometown, past schools/work experiences, etc. By getting this kind of personal information of users, the companies know their users better by analyzing everything provided in the data, at the same time making predictions of the users' potential action in the future. For instance, after you searched for a dress on Taobao, the recommendation section will be full of similar dresses or clothes of that specific brand. Taobao looks at your preference for commodities and intentionally recommend you the products that you have higher chances to buy, which provide you with more choices.

However, is this kind of data collection a good thing or a bad thing? If the companies only use the data for product improvements, it seems to be a good thing. But if our data were trade between different companies without notifying us, then our privacy is violated. Data is no longer purely used for improving the services, but more for increasing the profits of companies by using our data to predict the future.

> "It sustains and nourishes uneven power relationships: in most of our interactions with power, data is not something that is freely given but forcibly extracted..."

True, the data we see are never "raw", but intentionally and carefully cooked/extracted by people behind the machines. The uneven power relationships are not generated by data, instead, they are generated by people who collect and use the data. Data itself is innocent. Data collectors collect what they want to see, and ignore what is useless in the data. All the uneven power relationships are generated and even used by people. Data and technologies are just tools to create this kind of inequality.

> "We have also seen the way in which data leaks and breaches: the critical excursions and chain reactions that lead to privacy meltdowns and the rhizomatic mushroom cloud. These analogies are not mere speculations: they are the inherent and totalising effects of our social and engineering choices."

The word "totalising" is very accurate under this situation. People didn't notice it when data started to leak and breach, or they just didn't care about it. When the leakage is severe enough and we start to care about it, there's actually nothing we can do to make the situation better. Not only are the companies choosing to violate data and privacy, but we ourselves are compromising our privacy and data to get more convenience lives. For instance, we let the browser to remember our password so that we don't have to type it again and again, but at the same time, we let the people behind the browser development know our password. With companies and ourselves mutually contributing to the data leakage process, the situation cannot be twisted anymore.
